Bits Code automations (#37146)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/bits_ai/bits_ai_dev_agent/automations.md

---
title: Automations
disable_toc: false
description: Create Bits Code automations that run sessions on a schedule or in response to Datadog signals.
further_reading:
- link: "/bits_ai/bits_ai_dev_agent/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Bits Code"
---

## Overview
Create an automation to have Bits Code start a [session][1] when a trigger fires, such as a new Code Security finding or a recurring schedule, then deliver the results as a pull request or Slack notification.

{{< img src="bits_ai/dev_agent/automations/list.png" alt="Under an 'Automate with Bits' title, a table with columns like Name, Author, and Last Run has four rows." style="width:100%;" >}}

With Bits Code automations, you can:

- Generate code fixes on a schedule, without starting each session manually
- Have Bits Code respond to signals from other Datadog products, such as a new APM Recommendation, a flaky test, or a Code Security finding
- Route the resulting code changes directly to a pull request or notify a team in Slack

> ## Prerequisites

Author: @leachface just remembered good ol' auto-push—should its enablement (either always allow or only with code) be here too?

Author: we talked about this IRL today—auto-push is probably significantly changing, so let's leave this out for now

1. Click **New Automation**.
1. In the **Automation name** field, enter a descriptive name for the automation.
1. In the **Trigger** section, configure a [trigger](#triggers).
1. In the **Output** section, configure one or more [outputs](#outputs).
1. Click **Create Automation** or **Create & run now**.

### Create an automation from a template
Find Datadog-provided automation templates in the **Automation Templates** section. These may include:

- **Create PRs based on APM Recommendations**: Generates pull requests based on APM Recommendations for a specific service.
- **Fix frequent errors for a repo**: Uses the [**Custom Prompt**](#custom-prompt-trigger) trigger to instruct Bits Code to scan the last 24 hours of logs, find the most frequent error, and open a pull request with a fix.

Click a template tile to be taken to the new automation form. You must configure an [output](#outputs) before creating the automation.

## Triggers
A trigger defines when an automation runs and what Bits Code acts on. A trigger is built from up to three components: 

- [Product finding](#product-finding-trigger)
- [Custom prompt](#custom-prompt-trigger)

> - [Schedule](#schedule-trigger)

Reviewer: These items are all explained in detail below, but it'd help to have a very brief summary or description for each one here in the list, so the user doesn't need to scroll and read a bunch to get the big picture.

Author: added!

Click **Add Trigger** to add a component. You can combine a product finding with a schedule, a custom prompt with a schedule, or use a product finding on its own.

To limit how many Bits Code sessions the automation can create in a given period (for example, `5 runs per Week`), click **Add Trigger** > **Set max runs**. One automation execution may produce more than one session. Use this setting to control the volume of pull requests or notifications an automation produces.

### Product finding trigger
A product finding trigger runs the automation in response to new issues in another Datadog product (for example, Error Tracking or Code Security). You can use a product finding trigger by itself, which runs the automation whenever there is a new finding, or with a [schedule](#schedule-trigger) and lookback window you define (in the **New findings within** field).

> <div class="alert alert-info">While it's most common to use a product finding trigger alone (so that new findings are immediately remediated), coupling it with a schedule and lookback window may be useful if you'd like Bits Code to monitor for new findings during only certain times. For example, if you deploy weekly on Wednesdays, you may want to configure an APM Recommendations trigger to run every Thursday, looking back 24 hours.</div>

Reviewer: Long first sentence, a few ideas to streamline:
```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-info">While it's common to use a product finding trigger alone (to immediately remediate new findings), coupling it with a schedule and lookback window lets you monitor for new findings only during certain times. For example, if you deploy weekly on Wednesdays, you may want to configure an APM Recommendations trigger to run every Thursday, looking back 24 hours.</div>
```

  - **Code Security (SAST)** supports filtering by **Repository**, **Severity**, **Rule to remediate**, and a toggle to **Filter out findings identified as false positives by Bits AI**.

### Custom prompt trigger
A custom prompt tells Bits Code what to do each time the automation runs, in free-form text, against a chosen repository. Use a custom prompt for recurring maintenance tasks that aren't tied to a specific Datadog signal, such as updating dependencies or refreshing documentation.

### Schedule trigger
A schedule trigger controls when an automation runs. It can be used in combination with a [product finding](#product-finding-trigger) or a [custom prompt](#custom-prompt-trigger). When setting a schedule, you can choose from:
  - **Every…**: Choose a preset interval (for example, `Every day at 09:00 am`).
  - **Custom Schedule**: Choose specific days of the week and a time of day (for example, `Mo, We, Fr at 03:00 pm`).

## Outputs
An output defines what Bits Code does after a [session][1] completes. An automation can have one or more outputs, including [opening a pull request](#pull-request-output) and [generating a Slack notification](#slack-message-output).

> To add an output, click **Add Output**. 

Reviewer: This seems too obvious to need documenting, unless it's part of a longer procedure.
```suggestion
```

Author: lol ok so true

### Pull request output
You can configure your automation to:
- **Create a PR**: Opens a pull request with the proposed changes

> - **Draft a PR**: Opens a draft pull request with the proposed changes

Reviewer: To maintain the same verb form throughout:
```suggestion
- **Create a PR**: Open a pull request with the proposed changes
- **Draft a PR**: Open a draft pull request with the proposed changes
```

As the author of a Bits Code automation, you are the author of all pull requests it generates.

### Slack message output

> You can configure your automation to **Send Slack message**, which sends a Slack message summarizing the [session][1] and code changes. If you use a pull request output in addition to a Slack output, Bits Code includes a link to the pull request in the Slack message.

Reviewer: Including the button/option name doesn't flow with the rest of the sentence because it drops the "a" article, and otherwise it's exactly what it says on the tin, so not really needed:
```suggestion
You can configure your automation to send a Slack message summarizing the [session][1] and code changes. If you use a pull request output in addition to a Slack output, Bits Code includes a link to the pull request in the Slack message.
```

Author: this makes sense! I think sometimes I feel like I _must_ include the actual button text (or an app screenshot) to connect the info in the docs to the thing in the UI, but because it's pretty obvious in this case, I agree that it's ok to not have

When you add a Slack message output, by default, Bits Code sends the message to the channel configured for the affected service in [Catalog][5]. You can set a fallback Slack channel, which is used when no channel is set in Catalog.

## Manage automations
On [**Automations**][3], view the automations you created on the **My Automations** tab. Switch to **All** to see automations created by anyone in your organization.

You can pause or resume any automation, but you can only edit or delete automations you created.

## Limitations
Bits Code automations has the following limitation:

> - When using a [product finding trigger](#product-finding-trigger), each finding that triggers an automation is tied to a single session. Multiple findings cannot be fixed in a single session or pull request.

Reviewer: This information would probably be more effective and noticeable as an alert in the "Product finding trigger" section above, instead of out of context down here.

Also, no need to create a bullet list if it only has one item; a regular sentence/paragraph would be fine.

Author: good call, implemented

---
title: Automations
disable_toc: false
description: Create Bits Code automations that run sessions on a schedule or in response to Datadog signals.
further_reading:
- link: "/bits_ai/bits_ai_dev_agent/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Bits Code"
---

> ## Overview

Author: @leachface to add a Preview callout or not to add a Preview callout, that is the question in the GitHub comment

Reviewer 2: No preview callout please. We'll be GA at DASH.

Author: woop woop

1. In the **Trigger** section, configure a [trigger][2].
1. In the **Output** section, configure one or more [outputs][3].
1. Click **Create Automation** or **Create & run now**.

### Create an automation from a template
Find Datadog-provided automation templates in the **Automation Templates** section. These may include:

- **Create PRs based on APM Recommendations**: Generates pull requests based on APM Recommendations for a specific service.
- **Fix frequent errors for a repo**: Uses the [**Custom Prompt**][9] trigger to instruct Bits Code to scan the last 24 hours of logs, find the most frequent error, and open a pull request with a fix.

Click a template tile to be taken to the new automation form. You must configure an [output][3] before creating the automation.

## Triggers
A trigger defines when an automation runs and what Bits Code acts on. A trigger is built from up to three components: 

- [Product source][8]
- [Custom prompt][9]
- [Schedule][10]

Click **Add Trigger** to add a component. You can combine a product source with a schedule, a custom prompt with a schedule, or use a product source on its own.

> To limit how many code sessions the automation can create in a given period (for example, `5 runs per Week`), click **Add Trigger** > **Set max runs**. One automation execution may produce more than one code session. Use this setting to control the volume of pull requests or notifications an automation produces.

Author: @karthikrao-dd does this capture the actual behavior we talked about? i.e., "Set max runs" ≠ max runs of the automation; rather, = max number of code sessions, which may or may not = the number of automation runs

Reviewer 3: Yeah the behavior is correct. I'll discuss with Mike if we should rename the label to "5 sessions per week" to avoid any confusion between automation run vs code session resulting from a run.

Author: sounds good, thank you!

### Schedule trigger
A schedule trigger controls when an automation runs. It can be used in combination with a [product source][8] or a [custom prompt][9]. When setting a schedule, you can choose from:
  - **Every…**: Choose a preset interval (for example, `Every day at 09:00 am`).
  - **Custom Schedule**: Choose specific days of the week and a time of day (for example, `Mo, We, Fr at 03:00 pm`).

## Outputs
An output defines what Bits Code does after a [code session][1] completes. An automation can have one or more outputs, including [opening a pull request][12] and [generating a Slack notification][7].

To add an output, click **Add Output**. 

### Pull request output
You can configure your automation to:
- **Create a PR**: Opens a pull request with the proposed changes
- **Draft a PR**: Opens a draft pull request with the proposed changes

As the author of a Bits Code automation, you are the author of all pull requests it generates.

### Slack message output

> You can configure your automation to **Send Slack message**, which sends a Slack message about the [code session][1].

Author: @leachface if you select both the Slack message and PR outputs, does the Slack message contain info about/a link to the PR? anything else we should call out about the contents of the Slack message?

Reviewer 2: Yes it will contain a link to the PR and will have a summary of the automation and code change

Author: added!

When you add a Slack message output, by default, Bits Code sends the message to the channel configured for the affected service in [Catalog][11]. You can set a fallback Slack channel, which is used when no channel is set in Catalog.

## Manage automations
On [**Automations**][5], view the automations you created on the **My Automations** tab. Switch to **All** to see automations created by anyone in your organization.

You can pause or resume any automation, but you can only edit or delete automations you created.

## Limitations
Bits Code automations has the following limitation:

> - You cannot define Bits Code automations in code; they must be created through the form builder in Datadog.

Author: @leachface is this true/would you consider it a limitation? I just thought of it and put it here

separately, are there any other limitations you can think of? I was wondering if there's a maximum number of automations/automation runs a user or org can have

Reviewer 2: I don't think I'd consider this a limitation.

Reviewer 2: Maximums are set by our rate limits. Which _should_ be described elsewhere. But I'm not completely sure. 

Maybe a limitation we could include would be that any finding that triggers an Automation will be tied to a single session. Currently, multiple findings cannot be fixed within a single session or PR.

Author: swag, I removed "can't create in code" and added the single session one!
